README.md, before:

# ctfcli

*ctfcli is a tool to manage Capture The Flag events and challenges.*

`ctfcli` provides challenge specifications and templates to make it easier to generate challenges of different categories. It also provides an integration with the [CTFd](https://github.com/CTFd/CTFd/) REST API to allow for command line uploading of challenges and integration with CI/CD build systems.

`ctfcli` features tab completion, a REPL interface (thanks to [Python-Fire](https://github.com/google/python-fire)) and plugin support for custom commands.

*WIP: ctfcli is an alpha project and changes will happen. Be sure to pin versions and read the CHANGELOG when updating.*

# Installation and Usage

ctfcli can be installed with `pip install ctfcli`

## 1. Create an Event

ctfcli turns the current folder into a CTF event git repo. It asks for the base url of the CTFd instance you're working with and an access token.

```
❯ ctf init
Please enter CTFd instance URL: https://demo.ctfd.io
Please enter CTFd Admin Access Token: d41d8cd98f00b204e9800998ecf8427e
Do you want to continue with https://demo.ctfd.io and d41d8cd98f00b204e9800998ecf8427e [y/N]: y
Initialized empty Git repository in /Users/user/Downloads/event/.git/
```

This will create the `.ctf` folder with the `config` file that will specify the URL, access token, and keep a record of all the challenges dedicated for this event.

## 2. Add challenges

Events are made up of challenges. Challenges can be made from a subdirectory or pulled from another repository. Remote challenges are pulled into the event repo and a reference is kept in the `.ctf/config` file.

```
❯ ctf challenge add [REPO | FOLDER]
```

```
❯ ctf challenge add crypto/stuff
```

```
❯ ctf challenge add https://github.com/challenge.git
challenge
Cloning into 'challenge'...
remote: Enumerating objects: 624, done.
remote: Counting objects: 100% (624/624), done.
remote: Compressing objects: 100% (540/540), done.
remote: Total 624 (delta 109), reused 335 (delta 45), pack-reused 0
Receiving objects: 100% (624/624), 6.49 MiB | 21.31 MiB/s, done.
Resolving deltas: 100% (109/109), done.
```

## 3. Install challenges

Installing a challenge will automatically create the challenge in your CTFd instance using the API.

```
❯ ctf challenge install [challenge.yml | DIRECTORY]
```

```
❯ ctf challenge install buffer_overflow
Found buffer_overflow/challenge.yml
Loaded buffer_overflow
Installing buffer_overflow
Success!
```

## 4. Update challenges

Syncing a challenge will automatically update the challenge in your CTFd instance using the API. Any changes made in the `challenge.yml` file will be reflected in your instance.

```
❯ ctf challenge sync [challenge.yml | DIRECTORY]
```

```
❯ ctf challenge sync buffer_overflow
Found buffer_overflow/challenge.yml
Loaded buffer_overflow
Syncing buffer_overflow
Success!
```

# Challenge Templates

`ctfcli` contains pre-made challenge templates to make it faster to create CTF challenges with safe defaults.

```
ctf challenge new
                ├── binary
                ├── crypto
                ├── programming
                └── web
```

```
❯ ctf challenge new binary
/Users/user/.virtualenvs/ctfcli/lib/python3.7/site-packages/ctfcli-0.0.1-py3.7.egg/ctfcli/templates/binary/default
name [Hello]: buffer_overflow

❯ ls -1 buffer_overflow
Makefile
README.md
WRITEUP.md
challenge.yml
dist/
src/
```

**Contributions welcome on improving the challenge templates to make CTF challenges better for everyone!**

# Challenge Specification

`ctfcli` provides a [challenge specification](ctfcli/spec/challenge-example.yml) (`challenge.yml`) that outlines the major details of a challenge.

Every challenge generated by or processed by `ctfcli` should have a `challenge.yml` file.

The specification format has already been tested and used with CTFd in production events but comments, suggestions, and PRs are welcome on the format of `challenge.yml`.

# Plugins

`ctfcli` plugins are essentially additions to to the command line interface via dynamic class modifications. See the [plugin documentation page](docs/plugins.md) for a simple example.

*`ctfcli` is an alpha project! The plugin interface is likely to change!*

Commit message:

Add note about fork to readme

README.md, after:

# ctfcli

*ctfcli is a tool to manage Capture The Flag events and challenges.*

This repository contains ISSS's fork, which diverges slightly from upstream to support our workflow.

`ctfcli` provides challenge specifications and templates to make it easier to generate challenges of different categories. It also provides an integration with the [CTFd](https://github.com/CTFd/CTFd/) REST API to allow for command line uploading of challenges and integration with CI/CD build systems.

`ctfcli` features tab completion, a REPL interface (thanks to [Python-Fire](https://github.com/google/python-fire)) and plugin support for custom commands.

*WIP: ctfcli is an alpha project and changes will happen. Be sure to pin versions and read the CHANGELOG when updating.*

# Installation and Usage

ctfcli can be installed with `pip install ctfcli`

## 1. Create an Event

ctfcli turns the current folder into a CTF event git repo. It asks for the base url of the CTFd instance you're working with and an access token.

```
❯ ctf init
Please enter CTFd instance URL: https://demo.ctfd.io
Please enter CTFd Admin Access Token: d41d8cd98f00b204e9800998ecf8427e
Do you want to continue with https://demo.ctfd.io and d41d8cd98f00b204e9800998ecf8427e [y/N]: y
Initialized empty Git repository in /Users/user/Downloads/event/.git/
```

This will create the `.ctf` folder with the `config` file that will specify the URL, access token, and keep a record of all the challenges dedicated for this event.

## 2. Add challenges

Events are made up of challenges. Challenges can be made from a subdirectory or pulled from another repository. Remote challenges are pulled into the event repo and a reference is kept in the `.ctf/config` file.

```
❯ ctf challenge add [REPO | FOLDER]
```

```
❯ ctf challenge add crypto/stuff
```

```
❯ ctf challenge add https://github.com/challenge.git
challenge
Cloning into 'challenge'...
remote: Enumerating objects: 624, done.
remote: Counting objects: 100% (624/624), done.
remote: Compressing objects: 100% (540/540), done.
remote: Total 624 (delta 109), reused 335 (delta 45), pack-reused 0
Receiving objects: 100% (624/624), 6.49 MiB | 21.31 MiB/s, done.
Resolving deltas: 100% (109/109), done.
```

## 3. Install challenges

Installing a challenge will automatically create the challenge in your CTFd instance using the API.

```
❯ ctf challenge install [challenge.yml | DIRECTORY]
```

```
❯ ctf challenge install buffer_overflow
Found buffer_overflow/challenge.yml
Loaded buffer_overflow
Installing buffer_overflow
Success!
```

## 4. Update challenges

Syncing a challenge will automatically update the challenge in your CTFd instance using the API. Any changes made in the `challenge.yml` file will be reflected in your instance.

```
❯ ctf challenge sync [challenge.yml | DIRECTORY]
```

```
❯ ctf challenge sync buffer_overflow
Found buffer_overflow/challenge.yml
Loaded buffer_overflow
Syncing buffer_overflow
Success!
```

# Challenge Templates

`ctfcli` contains pre-made challenge templates to make it faster to create CTF challenges with safe defaults.

```
ctf challenge new
                ├── binary
                ├── crypto
                ├── programming
                └── web
```

```
❯ ctf challenge new binary
/Users/user/.virtualenvs/ctfcli/lib/python3.7/site-packages/ctfcli-0.0.1-py3.7.egg/ctfcli/templates/binary/default
name [Hello]: buffer_overflow

❯ ls -1 buffer_overflow
Makefile
README.md
WRITEUP.md
challenge.yml
dist/
src/
```

**Contributions welcome on improving the challenge templates to make CTF challenges better for everyone!**

# Challenge Specification

`ctfcli` provides a [challenge specification](ctfcli/spec/challenge-example.yml) (`challenge.yml`) that outlines the major details of a challenge.

Every challenge generated by or processed by `ctfcli` should have a `challenge.yml` file.

The specification format has already been tested and used with CTFd in production events but comments, suggestions, and PRs are welcome on the format of `challenge.yml`.

# Plugins

`ctfcli` plugins are essentially additions to to the command line interface via dynamic class modifications. See the [plugin documentation page](docs/plugins.md) for a simple example.

*`ctfcli` is an alpha project! The plugin interface is likely to change!*
